= Acts As Encryptable

While other encryption libraries require a separate column for each encrypted field, ActsAsEncryptable requires only one extra column per table. It works by mashing the fields to be encrypted into a YAML string and then breaking that into bite-sized chunks which are individually encrypted and munged together into an undecipherable string that is then stored in the database.

Encryption and decryption is done with asymmetric keys using Ruby's OpenSSL libraries. While sample keys are provided for testing and development, it is highly recommended that you provide your own key pair for production use. The cryptographic library that comes with the gem can be used to generate them. Be sure to store your private key in a secure place as your data is only safe so long as your private key remains so.


== Installation

Run this if the gem isn't installed already
  gem install ssoper-acts_as_encryptable --source=http://gems.github.com

Or place in your environment.rb
  config.gem 'ssoper-acts_as_encryptable', :source => 'http://gems.github.com'


== Configuration

After installing be sure to add a column to any tables that need to be encrypted
  class AddEncryptionFieldsToCreditCards < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def self.up
      add_column :credit_cards, :encrypted, :text
    end

    def self.down
      remove_column :credit_cards, :encrypted
    end
  end

Or you can use the migration helper to generate the migration for the model
  ./script/generate acts_as_encryptable_migration credit_cards

In your model you will setup the virtual attributes to be encrypted and pass them to acts_as_encryptable
  class CreditCard < ActiveRecord::Base
    attr_accessor :first_name, :last_name, :number
    acts_as_encryptable :first_name, :last_name, :number
  end


== Usage

Encrypt your data
  card = CreditCard.new
  card.first_name = 'Test'
  card.last_name = 'User'
  card.number = '1234567890'
  card.save
  
Decrypt your data
  card = CreditCard.last
  card.decrypt!
  => { :first_name => 'Test', :last_name => 'User', :number => '1234567890' }


== Tests

The gem comes with unit tests that use SQLite files stored in /tmp. You can run them with the test task.
  rake test


== Acknowledgements

* Paul Barry for helping simplify the functionality
* Tobias Lütke for his {blog post}[http://blog.leetsoft.com/2006/03/14/simple-encryption] on asymmetric encryption using Ruby's native SSL libraries

== Contact

Feel free to contact me at {sean.soper@gmail.com}[mailto:sean.soper@gmail.com]

